docs: add post about learning quickly (#165)
jsjoeio/joeprevite.com: content/2020-06-19-how-to-learn-typescript-quickly/index.md

---
slug: 'learn-typescript-quickly'

> date: '2020-06-19'

Author: ```suggestion
date: '2020-07-03'
```

title: 'How to Learn Typescript Quickly'

> description: 'In the post, I show you everything you need to do to learn TypeScript quickly.'

Author: ```suggestion
description: 'In the post, I show you everything you need to do to learn TypeScript quickly using the Fast Framework.'
```

> tagline: 'The only guide you need'

Author: ```suggestion
tagline: 'Using the Fast Framework'
```

published: true
---

A few months back, I set out a goal to learn TypeScript deeply in 3 months. And [I did it](https://twitter.com/jsjoeio/status/1250490760362774529)! Since then, others have asked how they can do the same. This guide will provide you with a framework. It's called the **Fast Framework**.

> Imagine you're in Mario Kart and racing on a new map. You will only have achieved your goal if you cross the finish line. Taking this analogy, the framework can be broken into three phases:

Author: ```suggestion
Imagine you're in Mario Kart and racing on a new map. Your goal is to cross the finish line. Taking this analogy, we break the framework into three phases:
```

- Make your Map - Vision / Timeframe / Timeline / Organization
- Stay on Track -  Accountability / Momentum / Sharing / Focus
- Find the Flag - Practice / Confidence / Vocabulary / Depth

> In each phase, I'll cover different aspects that will help you learn fast and reach your goal. The first phase will cover the foundation for your learning project. Think of this as vision, timeframe, timeline, and organization. In the phase after, the focus on staying on track and I'll discuss aspects related to accountability, momentum, sharing, and focus. Lastly, I'll help you find the flag and talk about practice, confidence, vocabulary, and depth in the final phase of the journey.

Author: ```suggestion
In each phase, I'll cover different aspects that will help you learn fast and reach your goal. I'll use learning TypeScript as the example. The first phase will cover the foundation for your learning project. Think of this as vision, timeframe, timeline, and organization. In the phase after, the focus  will be staying on track and I'll discuss aspects related to accountability, momentum, sharing, and focus. In the final phase of the journey, I'll help you find the flag. There, I'll talk about practice, confidence, vocabulary, and depth.
```

First, define what you expect to achieve by learning TypeScript.

In my learning project, I wrote:

> Learn TypeScript deeply and become the [Company] "in-house expert"

That will be your **Objective**. Next, figure out how you're going to *measure* it. We refer to these as the **Key Results**. Continuing with my previous project, mine were:

- Read "Programming TypeScript" by Boris Cherny

- Read the [Official TypeScript Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/basic-types.html)

- Produce small code examples for all concepts

- Contribute to TypeScript, [the language](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")
- Contribute to [typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet](https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet)

**Don't rush through this part**. Spend some time thinking about your objective and what you need to achieve to get there. Completing your key results should allow you to confidently say you've completed your objective.

> With this vision in mind, you now have clarity on it means when you say "learn TypeScript." and you know what outcomes you expect to achieve.

Author: ```suggestion
With this vision in mind, you now have clarity on it means when you say "learn TypeScript" and you know what you expect to achieve.
```

### Establish a Timeframe

> You don't want to be racing on this map forever. You need to be realistic and ask yourself how much time we have for this. Estimating time to complete tasks in software is hard. We'll try our best by using something I like to call the **Timeframe Formula**:

Author: ```suggestion
You don't want to be racing on this map forever. You need to be realistic and ask yourself how much time you have for this. Estimating time to complete tasks is hard. You can use what I like to call the **Timeframe Formula**:
```

Take the length of months you want to work on this, multiple by 4 to give the amount in weeks. Then multiple it by the number of hours per week that you want to dedicate.

https://excalidraw.com/#json=4877101601652736,SeRw5x2aEzwtztaHHk0xUQ

For example, when I did a similar project, I gave myself 3 months with 8 hours per week. Using the Timeframe Formula, you get:

(3 months * 4 weeks/month) * 8 hours/week = 96 hours total.

https://excalidraw.com/#json=5134809571524608,ASGbR83wxxoafOuInmZ5Ew

> You now have your timeframe and expectation of how much you plan to dedicate each week.

Author: ```suggestion
You now have your timeframe. Use this to set expectations on how much time you plan to dedicate each week.
```

### Build a Timeline

> The next thing we need to add to our map is a timeline. Think of this as a week by week calendar. It helps you think less because you have already decided what to do for that week. It won't be perfect. You may need to readjust, but at least you will have established the framing.

Author: ```suggestion
The next thing you need to add to you map is a timeline. Think of this as a week by week calendar. It helps you think less because you will already know what to do for that week. It won't be perfect. You may need to readjust, but you will have removed friction.
```

An example:

- [ ] Week 1 (June 1)
  - [ ] Programming TypeScript
    - [ ] Chapter 1 - Introduction
    - [ ] Chapter 2 - TypeScript: a 10_000 foot view
      - [ ] Book exercises
    - [ ] Chapter 3 - All About Types
      - [ ] Book exercises
  - [ ] Official TypeScript Handbook (OTH)
    - [ ] Basic Types
    - [ ] Variable Declarations

> You know yourself best. Think back to the Timeframe Formula. The example estimated 8hrs/week and 12 weeks in total. Knowing the speed that you read it, you would adjust accordingly. A complete timeline would have all the weeks (i.e. 12 in this case) filled out.

Author: ```suggestion
You know yourself best. Think back to the Timeframe Formula. The example estimated 8hrs/week and 12 weeks in total. Knowing how fast you work (i.e. read, code, etc.), you would adjust accordingly. A complete timeline would have all the weeks (i.e. 12 in this case) filled out.
```

Two important tips:

> 1. Leave 1-2 weeks buffer towards the end

Author: 12
```suggestion
1. Leave ~10%(1-2 weeks) buffer towards the end
```

2. Give yourself some breathing room

Life comes up and you may fall behind. That's where the buffer comes in! Some weeks, you may find that you complete everything in 6 hours. No need to fill those two other hours if you don't want to. Reward yourself with rest.

> With your timeline, you'll be good to go!

Author: ```suggestion
With a timeline, you are be good to go!
```

### Keep it Organized

You want to stay organized on this journey. That means a place to keep track of your timeline, log any notes or things you learn, and have visual indicators for the progress you're making.

> I use Notion for this because it supports this type of project management well. I make a place for the project. I add the timeline and use checkboxes. Then, I check them off as I go and take notes as I learn new things.

Author: ```suggestion
I use Notion for this because it supports project management well. I make a place for the project. I add the timeline and use checkboxes. Then, I check them off as I go and take notes as I'm learning.
```

> Here is a list of tools you might want to check out:

Author: ```suggestion
Here is a non-exhaustive list of tools you might want to check out:
```
```suggestion
Here is a list of tools you might want to check out:
```

- [Notion](https://www.notion.so/)
- [Trello](https://trello.com/)
- [Asana](https://asana.com/)
- [GitHub Projects](https://github.com/features/project-management/)

You could also use an analog tool such as a pen and paper.

## Stay on Track

Now that we have our map, we are ready for the next phase: stay on track.

In this phase, the goal is to focus on developing the systems that will help you stay accountable, build momentum, share with others and, stay focused.

### Keep Yourself Accountable

> You always want someway to stay accountable for your project. Think of this as your race crew. They make sure you're fueled, your tires are rotated, you're hydrated, and you're ready to finish the race. We want a similar type of support and accountability.

Author: ```suggestion
You always want someway to stay accountable for your project. Think of this as your race crew. They make sure you're fueled, your tires are rotated, you're hydrated, and you're ready to finish the race. We want a similar type of support and accountability.
```
```suggestion
You always want someway to stay accountable for your project. Think of this as your race crew. They make sure you're fueled, your tires are rotated, you're hydrated, and you're ready to finish the race. We want a similar type of support and accountability.
```
```suggestion
You always want to stay accountable for your project. Think of this as your race crew. They make sure you're fueled, your tires are rotated, you're hydrated, and you're ready to finish the race. We want a similar type of support and accountability.
```

The last piece I want to touch on for staying on track is keeping your focus. To stay on track, you have to keep yourself focused. The first and foremost is **limit your focus**. Ideally, learning TypeScript is your main focus. I wouldn't suggest doing this and learning Rust or another language or something else. Keeping your attention on one project increases the likelihood you'll stay on track.

The other thing you might want to try is [**deep work**](https://www.calnewport.com/books/deep-work/). An idea by Cal Newport, it's where you create an environment that lets you focus on that project for a certain amount of time (such as 1 hour or more) without distractions. Figure out when you're most productive. For me, it's in the morning before work. I wake up early, go through my routine, and then spend some time learning.

Lastly, find tools to help you stay focused. I am a big fan of the **Pomodoro Technique**. I have an app called [Stretchly](https://hovancik.net/stretchly/) that reminds me to take a 20-second break every 20 minutes and a 5-minute break every 40 minutes. This allows me to focus for that period and then rest. It then repeats itself like a cycle.

## Find the Flag

> The last and final leg of this learning journey is finding the flag. You want to make it to the finish line and feel accomplished when you get there. Here, you want to use systems that will help you practice, build confidence, remember vocabulary, and go for depth so that you find the checkered flag.

Author: ```suggestion
The last and final leg of this learning journey is finding the flag. You want to make it to the finish line and feel accomplished when you get there. Here, you want to use systems that will help you practice, build confidence, remember vocabulary, and go for depth so that you find the checkered flag.
```
```suggestion
The last and final leg of this learning journey is finding the flag. You should make it to the finish line and feel accomplished when you get there. Here, you want to use systems that will help you practice, build confidence, remember vocabulary, and go for depth. This will lead to the beloved checkered flag.
```

### Practice

> Learning means nothing without practice. With your new TypeScript knowledge, you can build projects or contribute to open source. This is where the application phase of the learning cycle appears. It doesn't matter what you build, but that the act of building happens.

Author: Maybe add a diagram of the learning cycle?

> When I was learning, I followed a tutorial to [build a tiny compiler](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/the-super-tiny-compiler). It was written in JavaScript,  but I did it in TypeScript. This forced me to figure out things on my own.

Author: ```suggestion
When I was learning, I followed a tutorial to [build a tiny compiler](https://github.com/jamiebuilds/the-super-tiny-compiler). It was written in JavaScript, but I did it in TypeScript. This forced me to figure out things on my own.
```

> Other things I did include contributing to open source. Remember our key results? Here's two of them that apply here:

Author: ```suggestion
Another idea is contributing to open source. Remember our key results? Here's two of them that apply here:
```

- Contribute to TypeScript, [the language](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A"good+first+issue")
- Contribute to [typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet](https://github.com/typescript-cheatsheets/react-typescript-cheatsheet)

> This is where that happens if it hasn't already! The issues that you help with may be minor, but that's not the point.

Author: ```suggestion
This is where that happens if it hasn't already. The issues that you help with may be minor, but that's not the point.
```

**Practice is where you learn the most**.

### Build Confidence

> You want to build confidence in whatever you learning. This will make you feel comfortable using your new knowledge.

Author: ```suggestion
You want to build confidence in whatever you're learning. This will make you feel comfortable using your new knowledge.
```

In the case of TypeScript, you want to build **TypeScript Confidence**. There are various ways to do this including:

- teaching others
- sharing (as we said before)
- reviewing what you've learned
- helping others

### Don't Skip Vocab

Vocabulary is often overlooked. Don't skip out on it! It helps build confidence and it will solidify what you know. It's also a great tool to fight imposter syndrome. Knowing the vocabulary will allow you to build **expertise**.

> To learn and remember vocabulary, use a *spaced-repetition system* such as [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/). I used it when I was studying TypeScript. You can use it to remember things such as:

Author: ```suggestion
To learn and remember vocabulary, use a *spaced-repetition system* such as [Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/). I used it with my TypeScript learning project. You can use it to remember things such as:
```

- terminology
- concepts
- patterns
- syntax

### Go for Depth

> The last thing in this phase is going for depth. Deep learning. Deep understanding.

Author: ```suggestion
The last thing in this phase is going for depth. **Deep learning leads to deep understanding**.
```

There are two techniques you can use to deepen what you learn. The first is called the [Feynman Technique](https://fs.blog/2012/04/feynman-technique/). Take a concept you are learning, such as [type inference in TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/type-inference.html) and explain it as you would to a seven-year-old.

The idea is that if you can't do that, you don't know the concept well enough.

> Note: the age of the person towhom you're explaining your learning concept can vary. The goal is for you to be able to explain something you understand to someone with little knowledge or context.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: the age of the person to whom you're explaining your learning concept can vary. Focus on being able to explain something you understand to someone with little knowledge or context.
```

The second technique I want to point out is called [Ultralearning](https://www.scotthyoung.com/blog/ultralearning/). In his book, Scott Young explains Ultralearning as,

> a strategy for aggressive, self-directed learning.
>

> > —Scott Young

Author: Should I remove this?

Wondering if Fast Framework is really my own version of ultralearning.

> Think of it as taking something, learning quickly, and diving deep. You can use this with your learning projects.

Author: ```suggestion
Think of it as taking something, being aggressive with how much or how fast you can learn it, and diving deep. You can use this with your learning projects.
```

While you're learning, take notes of questions you have or concepts you don't quite understand. Then at the end of your project, see if those questions remain. If they do, start a new learning project and focus on answering those questions.

As you can imagine, if you do this with a topic, you'll have several learning projects and soon start to develop **expertise** in this subject. It's very powerful.

## Summary

> The most important takeaway is **use systems to help you learn better and faster**. They will serve as your map, keep you on track and help you find the flag to finish the race. Following these steps with TypeScript in mind, you will develop a proficiency, hopefully even **expertise** in the language.

Author: ```suggestion
The most important takeaway is this: **use systems to help you learn better and faster**. They will serve as your map, keep you on track and help you find the flag to finish the race. Following these steps with TypeScript in mind, you will develop a proficiency, hopefully even **expertise** in the language.
```
